packages/koenig-lexical/README.md, before:

# Koenig - Lexical edition

Early stage re-write of Ghost's editor, using Lexical as the editor framework in place of mobiledoc-kit.

## Development

### Pre-requisites

This package makes use of two other built packages in the monorepo, those packages will need to be built before this package's build will succeed.

```
cd packages/kg-default-nodes && yarn build
cd ..
cd packages/kg-clean-basic-html && yarn build
```

_Note:_ If any changes are made to those packages you'll need to rebuild them before the changes will show up in the demo site.

### Running the development version

Run `yarn dev` to start the development server to test/develop the editor standalone. This will generate a demo site from the `index.html` file which renders the demo app in `demo/demo.jsx` and makes it available on http://localhost:5173

### Running inside Admin

To test/develop inside of Admin you can run `yarn preview` then in Ghost set your `editor.url` value in `config.local.json` to `http://127.0.0.1:4173/koenig-lexical.umd.js` and load Admin as usual.

```json
{
    ...
    "editor": {
        "url": "http://127.0.0.1:4173/koenig-lexical.umd.js"
    }
}
```

`yarn preview` by itself only serves the library files, it's possible ro run `yarn build --watch` in a separate terminal tab to have auto-rebuild whilst developing.

### Project structure

**`/src`**

The main module source. `/src/index.js` is the entry point for the exposed module and should export everything needed to use the module from an external app.

**`/demo`**

Used for developing/demoing the editor. Renders a blank editor with all features enabled.

### Set up details

**CSS**

Styling should be done using Tailwind classes where possible.

All styles are scoped under `.koenig-lexical` class to avoid clashes and keep styling as isolated as possible. PostCSS nesting support is present to make this easier.

- Styles located in `src/styles/` are included in the final built module.
- Styles located in `demo/*.css` are only used in the demo and will not be included in the built module.

When packaging the module, styles are included inside the JS file rather than being separate to allow for a single import of the module in the consuming app.

**SVGs**

SVGs can be imported as React components in the [same way as create-react-app](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-images-fonts-and-files/#adding-svgs). Typically files are stored in `src/assets/`.

All imported files are processed/optimised via SVGO (see `svgo.config.js` for optimisation config) and included in the built JS file.

## Testing

Tests use [Vitest](https://vitest.dev) as the test runner, with [Playwright](https://playwright.dev) used for e2e testing.

- `yarn test` runs tests and exits
- `yarn test:headed` runs tests in browser so you can watch the tests execute
- `yarn test:slowmo` same as `yarn test:headed` but adds 100ms delay between instructions to make it easier to see what's happening (note that some tests may fail or timeout due to the added delays)
- `yarn test:watch` runs tests and starts a test watcher that re-runs tests on file changes
- `yarn test:watch --ui` same as `yarn test:watch` but also opens a browser UI for exploring and re-running tests

Before tests are started we build a version of the demo app that is used for the e2e tests.

When developing it can be useful to limit tests to specific keywords (taken from `describe` or `it/test` names). That's possible using the `-t` param and works with any of the above test commands, e.g.:

- `yarn test:watch -t "Callout card"`

### Editor integration

There's a [vitest vscode extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ZixuanChen.vitest-explorer) that lets you run and debug individual tests/groups directly inside vscode.

Commit message:

Set up koenig git workflow for Gif card
refs TryGhost/Team#2907
- Added tenor key to make Gif card available on https://koenig.ghost.org/

packages/koenig-lexical/README.md, after:

# Koenig - Lexical edition

Early stage re-write of Ghost's editor, using Lexical as the editor framework in place of mobiledoc-kit.

## Development

### Pre-requisites

This package makes use of two other built packages in the monorepo, those packages will need to be built before this package's build will succeed.

```
cd packages/kg-default-nodes && yarn build
cd ..
cd packages/kg-clean-basic-html && yarn build
```

_Note:_ If any changes are made to those packages you'll need to rebuild them before the changes will show up in the demo site.

### Running the development version

Run `yarn dev` to start the development server to test/develop the editor standalone. This will generate a demo site from the `index.html` file which renders the demo app in `demo/demo.jsx` and makes it available on http://localhost:5173

### Cards additional setup

#### Gif card

To see this card locally, you need to create `.env.local` file in `koenig-lexical` root package with the next data:
```
VITE_TENOR_API_KEY=xxx
```

How to get the tenor key is described here https://ghost.org/docs/config/#tenor

### Running inside Admin

To test/develop inside of Admin you can run `yarn preview` then in Ghost set your `editor.url` value in `config.local.json` to `http://127.0.0.1:4173/koenig-lexical.umd.js` and load Admin as usual.

```json
{
    ...
    "editor": {
        "url": "http://127.0.0.1:4173/koenig-lexical.umd.js"
    }
}
```

`yarn preview` by itself only serves the library files, it's possible ro run `yarn build --watch` in a separate terminal tab to have auto-rebuild whilst developing.

### Project structure

**`/src`**

The main module source. `/src/index.js` is the entry point for the exposed module and should export everything needed to use the module from an external app.

**`/demo`**

Used for developing/demoing the editor. Renders a blank editor with all features enabled.

### Set up details

**CSS**

Styling should be done using Tailwind classes where possible.

All styles are scoped under `.koenig-lexical` class to avoid clashes and keep styling as isolated as possible. PostCSS nesting support is present to make this easier.

- Styles located in `src/styles/` are included in the final built module.
- Styles located in `demo/*.css` are only used in the demo and will not be included in the built module.

When packaging the module, styles are included inside the JS file rather than being separate to allow for a single import of the module in the consuming app.

**SVGs**

SVGs can be imported as React components in the [same way as create-react-app](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-images-fonts-and-files/#adding-svgs). Typically files are stored in `src/assets/`.

All imported files are processed/optimised via SVGO (see `svgo.config.js` for optimisation config) and included in the built JS file.

## Testing

Tests use [Vitest](https://vitest.dev) as the test runner, with [Playwright](https://playwright.dev) used for e2e testing.

- `yarn test` runs tests and exits
- `yarn test:headed` runs tests in browser so you can watch the tests execute
- `yarn test:slowmo` same as `yarn test:headed` but adds 100ms delay between instructions to make it easier to see what's happening (note that some tests may fail or timeout due to the added delays)
- `yarn test:watch` runs tests and starts a test watcher that re-runs tests on file changes
- `yarn test:watch --ui` same as `yarn test:watch` but also opens a browser UI for exploring and re-running tests

Before tests are started we build a version of the demo app that is used for the e2e tests.

When developing it can be useful to limit tests to specific keywords (taken from `describe` or `it/test` names). That's possible using the `-t` param and works with any of the above test commands, e.g.:

- `yarn test:watch -t "Callout card"`

### Editor integration

There's a [vitest vscode extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ZixuanChen.vitest-explorer) that lets you run and debug individual tests/groups directly inside vscode.
